README.md, before:

libquicr
========

[![Build](https://github.com/Quicr/libquicr/actions/workflows/cmake.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/Quicr/libquicr/actions/workflows/cmake.yml)

An API library that implements publish/subscribe protocol [draft-ietf-moq-transport-04](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-moq-transport-04).
The API supports both client and server. Server is intended to be implemented as a relay.

API documentation can be found under https://quicr.github.io/libquicr

## Build

### Minimum Requirements

* GCC/G++ version 12 or higher
* Clang/llvm version 17 or higher 
* AppleClang/llvm version 17 or higher
* Clang-tidy version 15 or higher
* Python 3 with virtual environment
* Golang 1.19 or higher
* Cmake 3.13 or higher

### Ubuntu 22.04 Jammy

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y cmake make gcc-12 g++-12 clang-tidy-15 openssl golang \
            wget git libssl-dev python3 python3-venv
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If default gcc/g++ is installed, then you will need to set the default
> compiler to gcc-12/g++-12.  You can do that using:
> `export CC=/usr/bin/gcc-12`
> and `export CXX=/usr/bin/g++-12`



### Debian Bookworm

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y make wget git cmake openssl golang \
             libssl-dev python3 python3-venv clang-tidy-15
```

> [!NOTE]
> GCC/G++ version 12 is default on bookworm and will install via
> dependency of the above packages.

### Apple/Mac

Both Apple Intel and Silicon are supported. 


#### (1) Install Xcode

> [!NOTE]
> You **MUST** install xcode from Apple in order to get the base development programs.


Open the **App Store** and search for **Xcode** and install. 

#### (2) Install Xcode Command Line Tools

You can install them via xcode UI or you can install them using `xcode-select --install` from a shell/terminal.


#### (3) Install Homebrew

Install via https://brew.sh instructions.  

#### (4) Install packages via brew

```
brew install cmake clang-format 
```

#### (5) Install GoLang
Golang is required for BoringSSL build.  Install via https://go.dev/doc/install instructions. 

---

## Example
[cmd/examples](https://github.com/Quicr/libquicr/tree/main/cmd/examples) has an example client and server implementation showing chat and clock
applications.

Running `make` will build the examples. After running `make`, issue a `make cert` to generate a self-signed certificate
that will be used by `qserver`.   

For the server, the default command line arguments look for the server certificate in the local directory. You can override
that with the options `-c <cert file>` and `-k <key file>`, or you can run `qserver` from within the examples directory. 

### qServer
qServer is an example server/relay. It implements the server API to accept connections and relay objects to subscribers from publishers. 

Use `qserver -h` to get help. 

By default, no options are required unless you need to change the defaults. The default listening port is **1234**

### qClient
qClient is an example client. It implements the client API to make a connetion to the relay and to act as subscriber, publisher, or both.
The client program will read from `stdin` when in publisher mode to publish data. Alternatively, the client can be configured to publish
a timestamp using the option `--clock`.  

Use `qclient -h` to get help.

> [!NOTE]
> The **namespace** and **name** for both publish and subscribe can be any string value. The only requirement is
> to publish and subscribe to the same values. 

#### As chat subscriber

```
./qclient --sub_namespace chat --sub_name general
```

#### As chat publisher

```
./qclient --pub_namespace chat --pub_name general
```

#### As both chat subscriber and publisher

```
./qclient --sub_namespace chat --sub_name general --pub_namespace chat --pub_name general
```

#### As clock publisher

```
./qclient --pub_namespace clock --pub_name second --clock
```

#### As clock subscriber

```
./qclient --sub_namespace clock --sub_name second
```

---

### Make

Use `make` to build libquicr.

Use `make test` to run tests.

Use `make cclean` to clean build files.

Use `make fuzz` to run the fuzzer tests.

### C Bridge Target

libquicr includes C Bridge interfaces for C applications:

#### Building C Bridge  
The C Bridge provides a C wrapper around the C++ libquicr library.

See [c-bridge/README.md](c-bridge/README.md) for details.


## Self-signed Certificate

Server requires a TLS certificate and key file. For development and testing, use a self-signed certificate. Below
are the steps to create a self-signed certificate and private ey.

### Create cert under cmd/examples

```
make cert
```

### OpenSSL/BorningSSL

```
cd build/cmd/examples
openssl req -nodes -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -days 365 \
    -subj "/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Jose/O=Cisco/CN=test.m10x.org" \
    -keyout server-key.pem -out server-cert.pem
```

### MbedTLS

```
openssl req -nodes -x509 -newkey ec:<(openssl ecparam -name prime256v1) -days 365 \
    -subj "/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Jose/O=Cisco/CN=test.m10x.org" \
    -keyout server-key.pem -out server-cert.pem
```

OR 

```
    openssl ecparam -name prime256v1 -genkey -noout -out server-key-ec.pem
    openssl req -nodes -x509 -key server-key-ec.pem -days 365 \
        -subj "/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Jose/O=Cisco/CN=test.m10x.org" \
        -keyout server-key.pem -out server-cert.pem

```

---

## Generate documentation
API documentation can be generated using `make doc`

Below programs need to be installed.

Example on MacOS:

* `brew install doxygen`
* `brew install npm`
* `brew install pandoc`
* `npm install --global @mermaid-js/mermaid-cli`
* `npm install --global mermaid-filter`

> [!NOTE]
> https://github.com/raghur/mermaid-filter adds mermaid support to pandoc
>

### MOQ Implementation Documentation

See [MOQ Implementation](docs/implementation)

Commit message:

Update readme to not include qserver.

README.md, after:

libquicr
========

[![Build](https://github.com/Quicr/libquicr/actions/workflows/cmake.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/Quicr/libquicr/actions/workflows/cmake.yml)

An API library that implements publish/subscribe protocol [draft-ietf-moq-transport-04](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-moq-transport-04).
The API supports both client and server. Server is intended to be implemented as a relay.

API documentation can be found under https://quicr.github.io/libquicr

## Build

### Minimum Requirements

* GCC/G++ version 12 or higher
* Clang/llvm version 17 or higher
* AppleClang/llvm version 17 or higher
* Clang-tidy version 15 or higher
* Python 3 with virtual environment
* Golang 1.19 or higher
* Cmake 3.13 or higher

### Ubuntu 22.04 Jammy

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y cmake make gcc-12 g++-12 clang-tidy-15 openssl golang \
            wget git libssl-dev python3 python3-venv
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If default gcc/g++ is installed, then you will need to set the default
> compiler to gcc-12/g++-12.  You can do that using:
> `export CC=/usr/bin/gcc-12`
> and `export CXX=/usr/bin/g++-12`



### Debian Bookworm

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y make wget git cmake openssl golang \
             libssl-dev python3 python3-venv clang-tidy-15
```

> [!NOTE]
> GCC/G++ version 12 is default on bookworm and will install via
> dependency of the above packages.

### Apple/Mac

Both Apple Intel and Silicon are supported.


#### (1) Install Xcode

> [!NOTE]
> You **MUST** install xcode from Apple in order to get the base development programs.


Open the **App Store** and search for **Xcode** and install.

#### (2) Install Xcode Command Line Tools

You can install them via xcode UI or you can install them using `xcode-select --install` from a shell/terminal.


#### (3) Install Homebrew

Install via https://brew.sh instructions.

#### (4) Install packages via brew

```
brew install cmake clang-format
```

#### (5) Install GoLang
Golang is required for BoringSSL build.  Install via https://go.dev/doc/install instructions.

---

## Example
[cmd/examples](https://github.com/Quicr/libquicr/tree/main/cmd/examples) has an example client implementation showing chat and clock
applications.

Running `make` will build the examples.

### Server

For an example on a simple server, look at the integration tests. For a more complicated example, [LAPS](https://github.com/Quicr/laps) is more a more flushed out server.

### qClient
qClient is an example client. It implements the client API to make a connetion to the relay and to act as subscriber, publisher, or both.
The client program will read from `stdin` when in publisher mode to publish data. Alternatively, the client can be configured to publish
a timestamp using the option `--clock`.

Use `qclient -h` to get help.

> [!NOTE]
> The **namespace** and **name** for both publish and subscribe can be any string value. The only requirement is
> to publish and subscribe to the same values.

#### As chat subscriber

```
./qclient --sub_namespace chat --sub_name general
```

#### As chat publisher

```
./qclient --pub_namespace chat --pub_name general
```

#### As both chat subscriber and publisher

```
./qclient --sub_namespace chat --sub_name general --pub_namespace chat --pub_name general
```

#### As clock publisher

```
./qclient --pub_namespace clock --pub_name second --clock
```

#### As clock subscriber

```
./qclient --sub_namespace clock --sub_name second
```

---

### Make

Use `make` to build libquicr.

Use `make test` to run tests.

Use `make cclean` to clean build files.

Use `make fuzz` to run the fuzzer tests.

### C Bridge Target

libquicr includes C Bridge interfaces for C applications:

#### Building C Bridge
The C Bridge provides a C wrapper around the C++ libquicr library.

See [c-bridge/README.md](c-bridge/README.md) for details.


## Self-signed Certificate

Server requires a TLS certificate and key file. For development and testing, use a self-signed certificate. Below
are the steps to create a self-signed certificate and private ey.

### Create cert under cmd/examples

```
make cert
```

### OpenSSL/BorningSSL

```
cd build/cmd/examples
openssl req -nodes -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -days 365 \
    -subj "/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Jose/O=Cisco/CN=test.m10x.org" \
    -keyout server-key.pem -out server-cert.pem
```

### MbedTLS

```
openssl req -nodes -x509 -newkey ec:<(openssl ecparam -name prime256v1) -days 365 \
    -subj "/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Jose/O=Cisco/CN=test.m10x.org" \
    -keyout server-key.pem -out server-cert.pem
```

OR

```
    openssl ecparam -name prime256v1 -genkey -noout -out server-key-ec.pem
    openssl req -nodes -x509 -key server-key-ec.pem -days 365 \
        -subj "/C=US/ST=CA/L=San Jose/O=Cisco/CN=test.m10x.org" \
        -keyout server-key.pem -out server-cert.pem

```

---

## Generate documentation
API documentation can be generated using `make doc`

Below programs need to be installed.

Example on MacOS:

* `brew install doxygen`
* `brew install npm`
* `brew install pandoc`
* `npm install --global @mermaid-js/mermaid-cli`
* `npm install --global mermaid-filter`

> [!NOTE]
> https://github.com/raghur/mermaid-filter adds mermaid support to pandoc
>

### MOQ Implementation Documentation

See [MOQ Implementation](docs/implementation)
